Refining Configuring Keycloak guide (#17519)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/server/configuration.adoc

This guide explains the configuration methods for Keycloak and how to start and apply the preferred configuration. It includes configuration guidelines for optimizing Keycloak for faster startup and low memory footprint.

> == Configuration Sources for Keycloak

Reviewer: @andymunro I believe this comment is still valid.

> == Configuration Sources for Keycloak

Author: Yes, I had corrected this already unless you mean changing "Sources" to "sources."  Let me know.

> == Configuration Sources for Keycloak

Reviewer: You are correct, sorry for the noise. :)

=== Example: Configuring the db-url-host parameter

The following example shows how the `db-url` value is set in three configuration sources:

|===
|*Source* | *Format*

|Command line parameters
|`--db-url=cliValue`

|Environment variable
|`KC_DB_URL=envVarValue`

|Configuration file
|`db-url=confFileValue`
|===

Based on the priority of application, the value that is used at startup is `cliValue`, because the command line is the highest priority.

If `--db-url=cliValue` had not been used, the applied value would be `KC_DB_URL=envVarValue`. If the value were not applied by either the command line or an environment variable, `db-url=confFileValue` would be used. However, if this value had been set in a user defined configuration file, that value would take precedence over the `conf/keycloak.conf` file.

== Formats for configuration
The configuration uses a _unified-per-source_ format, which simplifies translation of a key/value pair from one configuration source to another.

Command-line parameter format:: Values for the command-line use the `--_<key-with-dashes>_=_<value>_` format. For some values, an `-_<abbreviation>_=_<value>_` shorthand also exists.

> Environment variable format:: Values for environment variables use the uppercased `KC_<key_with_underscores>=<value>` format.

Author: Thanks, @vmuzikar. Your comment is correct, but generating the output interprets the first underscore as an actual underscore, not a formatting element to create an italics output.  I have not found a workaround.

> Environment variable format:: Values for environment variables use the uppercased `KC_<key_with_underscores>=<value>` format.

Reviewer 2: The first underscore can be marked as pass-through by quoting it with `++`. The `<key_with_underscores>` then needs to be wrapped in double `__` to avoid confusion with the single underscores it contains. For `<value>` single underscores are sufficient. 

This leads to the following snippet: 

```
Environment variable format:: Values for environment variables use the uppercased `KC++_++__<key_with_underscores>__=_<value>_` format.
```

which renders as

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3957921/229291880-ba1cae46-9b63-4e06-8685-46c7d09be54b.png)

=== Starting Keycloak in production mode
Use production mode for deployments of Keycloak in production environments. This mode follows a _secure by default_ principle.

To start in production mode, enter the following command:

<@kc.start parameters=""/>

Without further configuration, this command will not start Keycloak and show you an error instead. This response is done on purpose, because Keycloak follows a _secure by default_ principle. Production mode expects a hostname to be set up and an HTTPS/TLS setup to be available when started.

.Defaults
Production mode sets the following defaults:

* HTTP is disabled as transport layer security (HTTPS) is essential
* Hostname configuration is expected
* HTTPS/TLS configuration is expected

Before deploying Keycloak in a production environment, make sure to follow the steps outlined in <@links.server id="configuration-production"/>.

By default, example configuration options for the production mode are commented out in the default `conf/keycloak.conf` file. These options give you an idea about the main configuration to consider when running Keycloak in production.

== Creating the initial admin user

> You can create the initial admin user by using the web frontend, which you access using a local connection (localhost). You can instead create this user by using environment variables. Set `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=_<username>_` for the initial admin username and `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=_<password>_` for the initial admin password.

Author: @ahus1 Is the web frontend the Admin Console?

Keycloak parses these values at first startup to create an initial user with administrative rights.
Once the first user with administrative rights exists, you can use the Admin Console or the command line tool `kcadm.[sh|bat]` to create additional users.

If the initial administrator already exists and the environment variables are still present at startup, an error message stating the failed creation of the initial administrator is shown in the logs. Keycloak ignores the values and starts up correctly.

== Optimize the Keycloak startup
We recommend optimizing Keycloak to provide faster startup and better memory consumption before deploying Keycloak in a production environment. This section describes how to apply Keycloak optimizations for the best performance and runtime behavior.

=== Creating an optimized Keycloak build
By default, when you use the `start` or `start-dev` command, Keycloak runs a `build` command under the covers for convenience reasons.  

> This `build` command performs a set of optimizations for the startup and runtime behavior. The build process can take a few seconds. Especially when running Keycloak in containerized environments such as Kubernetes or OpenShift, startup time is important. To avoid losing that time, run a `build` immediately before starting up, such as a separate step in a CI/CD pipeline.

Author: Okay, that makes sense, 
@vmuzikar

==== First step: Run a build explicitly
To run a `build`, enter the following command:

<@kc.build parameters="<build-options>"/>

This command shows `build options` that you enter. Keycloak distinguishes between **build options**, that are usable when running the `build` command, and **configuration options**, that are usable when starting up the server.

> For a non-optimized startup of Keycloak, this distinction has no effect. However, if you run a build just before the startup,  only a subset of options is available to the build command. The restriction is due to the build options getting persisted into the Keycloak classpath. For example, configuration for credentials such as `db-password` must not get persisted for security reasons.

Reviewer 3: This does not read correct " ... persisted into the Keycloak classpath". We were using "server image" when talking about persisted properties, weren't we?

> For a non-optimized startup of Keycloak, this distinction has no effect. However, if you run a build just before the startup,  only a subset of options is available to the build command. The restriction is due to the build options getting persisted into the Keycloak classpath. For example, configuration for credentials such as `db-password` must not get persisted for security reasons.

Author: @pedroigor or @vmuzikar Do you know what this should say.  This text was in the original version.

> For a non-optimized startup of Keycloak, this distinction has no effect. However, if you run a build just before the startup,  only a subset of options is available to the build command. The restriction is due to the build options getting persisted into the Keycloak classpath. For example, configuration for credentials such as `db-password` must not get persisted for security reasons.

Reviewer: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
For a non-optimized startup of Keycloak, this distinction has no effect. However, if you run a build before the startup, only a subset of options is available to the build command. The restriction is due to the build options getting persisted into optimized Keycloak image. For example, configuration for credentials such as `db-password` must not get persisted for security reasons.
```
WDYT @pedroigor?

> For a non-optimized startup of Keycloak, this distinction has no effect. However, if you run a build just before the startup,  only a subset of options is available to the build command. The restriction is due to the build options getting persisted into the Keycloak classpath. For example, configuration for credentials such as `db-password` must not get persisted for security reasons.

Reviewer 3: Makes more sense, thanks.

> For a non-optimized startup of Keycloak, this distinction has no effect. However, if you run a build just before the startup,  only a subset of options is available to the build command. The restriction is due to the build options getting persisted into the Keycloak classpath. For example, configuration for credentials such as `db-password` must not get persisted for security reasons.

Reviewer: @andymunro I believe this comment is still valid (mainly the difference between "classpath" and "image" – the latter is correct).

> For a non-optimized startup of Keycloak, this distinction has no effect. However, if you run a build just before the startup,  only a subset of options is available to the build command. The restriction is due to the build options getting persisted into the Keycloak classpath. For example, configuration for credentials such as `db-password` must not get persisted for security reasons.

Author: Okay, I have fixed this. Thanks.
